Data-Lake
Project Data Lake as part of Udacity's Data Engineering Nanodegree


Project Description
In this project, you'll apply what you've learned on Spark and data lakes to build an ETL pipeline for a data lake hosted on S3. To complete the project, you will need to load data from S3, process the data into analytics tables using Spark, and load them back into S3. You'll deploy this Spark process on a cluster using AWS.


Project Datasets
You'll be working with two datasets that reside in S3. Here are the S3 links for each:
Song data: s3://udacity-dend/song_data
Log data: s3://udacity-dend/log_data

Song Dataset
The first dataset is a subset of real data from the Million Song Dataset. Each file is in JSON format and contains metadata about a song and the artist of that song. The files are partitioned by the first three letters of each song's track ID. For example, here are filepaths to two files in this dataset.
song_data/A/B/C/TRABCEI128F424C983.json
song_data/A/A/B/TRAABJL12903CDCF1A.json
And below is an example of what a single song file, TRAABJL12903CDCF1A.json, looks like.
{"num_songs": 1, "artist_id": "ARJIE2Y1187B994AB7", "artist_latitude": null, "artist_longitude": null, "artist_location": "", "artist_name": "Line Renaud", "song_id": "SOUPIRU12A6D4FA1E1", "title": "Der Kleine Dompfaff", "duration": 152.92036, "year": 0}
Log Dataset
The second dataset consists of log files in JSON format generated by this event simulator based on the songs in the dataset above. These simulate app activity logs from an imaginary music streaming app based on configuration settings.
The log files in the dataset you'll be working with are partitioned by year and month. For example, here are filepaths to two files in this dataset.
log_data/2018/11/2018-11-12-events.json
log_data/2018/11/2018-11-13-events.json
And below is an example of what the data in a log file, 2018-11-12-events.json, looks like.


ETL pipeline

The ETL pipeline (see etl.py) loads the S3 data sources into Spark dataframes, aggregrates and transforms the data into the described schema and writes the data back to S3 in the parquet format.

Instructions

Create an AWS IAM role with S3 read and write access.
Enter the IAM's credentials in the dl.cfg configuration file.
Create an S3 bucket (note that the zone eu-central-1 may cause issues) and enter the URL to the bucket in etl.py as the value of output_data.
Run python3 etl.py to process the data and store it on your created S3 bucket.